Now, the last piece
And this is where I believe
the rails go off for
most people doing NgRx or
any kind of state management.
It's in effects the reason
being is that this is
typically where you want
to put your business logic.
Secondly, your effects are asynchronous.
And the reason why people struggle with.
Asynchronous data flows is because they,
especially with
observable streams is because,
and I say this respectfully,
most individuals do not understand or
truly grasp observable streams.
And so the reason why asynchronous or
affects our heart is because
they're asynchronous.
A synchronous data is hard
because we haven't trained
ourselves in a lot of cases to think in
an asynchronous observable stream world.
And I will reduce this
down to one single switch
that you need to flip in order for
this to work.
We are used to existing
in an input output world.
Every one of us understands
that I can call a function.
I can give it input and I get output.
So all my friends that I could see in
the Zoom chat nod your head if this
makes sense.
You call a function,
you give it input, you get output.
You are essentially dictating that event
and you're pulling that data to you.
In an observable world we have
to switch from input to output,
to flip it,
to think about output to input.
And when in your mind,
make that switch and
really make that switch all of a sudden,
observable streams.
In reactive programming,
just clicks and adjust makes sense.
And how I can say this is that there
are things that are happening is
that you have an initial output of data.
You want to capture that
initial output in your job.
Is to just figure out where
you want to input it into your
application in what shape you want
it to be in when it gets there.
So, think of it as a garden hose.
If somebody walks over and
turns that knob, I have an output of data.
My job is not to say, give me water.
It's coming it's a stream.
I have to figure out
where I want to put that.
Am I going to put it in the flower bed?
Am I going to put it in the pool?
And what shape do I need it
to be when it gets there?
And a really great way to think about
this is in terms of dom events,
that any time you move, just take your
mouse and move it over the browser.
You've just fired off
hundreds of dom events.
Your browser is a continual stream
of events that you can capture and
turn those,
turn that into an observable string and
do some really, really interesting things.
For instance, I can do drag and
drop in about five lines of code.
How do I do that?
I want to listen for
it when the mouse goes down.
Start the stream I wanna capture
the stream as my mouse is moving and
the minute I take my mouse off, stop the
stream, until I put my mouse back down.
And so, the reason why I'm saying this in
terms of UI is cuz there's things that
are happening.
There's this initial output
that we need to capture and
we need to figure out
where we want to put it.
In the shape that we want it to be in and
this is NgRx and
defects in a nutshell is that we
have some form of output in the form
of an action coming in, which is,
in this case right here.
And then, provided this is successful,
we're just allowing that
stream to continue.
And all of the logic here,
is happening in the widgets service.
And so we're saying,
we have a trigger event,
which is your initial output,
some asynchronous thing.
And it doesn't have to be asynchronous.
Like I would put logic in here
just because I like this idea of,
here's a trigger event.
Here's some unit of work, and
then you have your completion event.
Which is either success or
failure with the payload.
And so this right here of your initial
output in the form of an action object
like this thing happened, like it's
happening no matter what you can't choose.
If it happens or not, or
the effect can't choose, it's coming in.
Then you need to figure out
what you want to do with it.
And you want to figure out,
where do I want to put it?
Which fun fact, you can actually
chain effects together and
create a really neat sequence of events.
And so, do this asynchronous thing,
do the asynchronous thing,
do the asynchronous thing.
And so I would use this pattern even
outside of NgRx, simply because
it gives me the ability to sequence these
events in a way that is composable.
Which that's the other upside for effects.
And Feeney, that completes my
monologue on how it's a supervillain.
I will take over the world
with state management.
Now, please check out the branch and
I would say methodically
walk through this with
the appropriate emphasis being
played on the complex pieces,
and understanding why they're complex.
Actions are simple, reducers are simple,
Selectors are simple.
Where it gets tricky is in the effect.
And I think really when you understand
that and you do fine grained units,
that it becomes very manageable.
And so I think of it just as like,
we would have no problem saying this
dot HTTP dot, get do something.
We've been kind of playing
around with that all day.
Just think of it as you have
a trigger event at the beginning and
a completion event at the end.
And so all you're doing is you're
just using if you think of it
as a train that I think of the actual
unit of logic is like the box car.
And then your actions are like what
actually string them together.